Not following these rules will result in punishments of any variety. Breaking rules may lead to bans and IP bans. These
rules are subject to change at any time, and it is the responsibility of the player to keep up to date with any changes.
Players will not be notified of rule changes.

Contents
  A. General Rules
  B. PvP Rules
  C. Faction Rules
  D. Chat Rules
  E. War Rules
  F. OpenPvP Rules

A. General Rules

  01) All staff members are to be respected at all times. They keep the server safe and secure, so please show them
  the respect they deserve.

  02) Griefing is defined as breaking or building on anything that does not belong to you that was created by another
  player. Any instance of grief will not be tolerated.

  03) Use of hacked clients such as Nodus is not acceptable. Other mods such as X-Ray mods (ore-finder) are also not
  allowed. The mods allowed are as follows:
    * TooManyItems/NotEnoughItems
    * Rei's Minimap (or other similar minimaps)
    * RoyalSkins
    * Bookmarks
    * InventoryTweaks (or similar)
    * Optifine
  Furthermore, if a mod not listed as safe for use in the rules would like to be used, permission should be acquired
  prior to use.

  04) The use of ender pearls to teleport inside of locked houses or other protected areas is strictly prohibited.

  05) Be courteous and respectful to the other players of the server. The server is shared, and a negative environment
  does not help anyone.

  06) Offensive buildings/structures are prohibited. These are not respectful to all players. Examples of offensive
  builds include, but are not limited to:
    * Swastikas
    * The World Trade Center filled with TNT
    * Genitalia
    * Vulgar words
    * Inappropriate symbols

  07) Only one account is permitted per user/IP. If multiple people live in the same household (and share the same IP),
  this must be expressed to staff members before an application is accepted.

  08) The only way to obtain a Civilian status is by having an application accepted at apply.royaldev.org.

  09) Raiding, spawn-killing, stealing, looting, griefing, or other focused, intentional, harm-causing activities are
  prohibited. See PvP rules for information about PvP.

  10) Attacks on the server (hardware related) are not permitted. All IPs associated in an attack will be blacklisted,
  and the respective ISPs of said IP addresses will be alerted. Legal discourse may be taken if the offense is serious
  enough.

  11) Staff members are not required to assist players in building or other game activities. Staff members are required
  to investigate claims of grief or other rule-breaking activities.

  12) Using privileges not available to other players for other players is prohibited. Examples of such actions include
    * Spawning items for players without spawning privileges
    * Teleporting players to inaccessible areas
  Furthermore, using privileges not available to other players against other players is prohibited. Staff are not bound
  by this rule.

  13) Advertising any product or server is strictly prohibited.

  14) Staff members have the final say on any rule-based decision.

  15) The minimum age for play is sixteen (16). The recommended age is eighteen (18). Players under sixteen years of
  age will be banned.

  16) Ranks and donation perks may be taken away at any time for any reason. Donating or buying a rank does not exempt a
  player from bans. Donations and payments will not be refunded, nor will any compensation be given for losing access to
  the server after donating or buying a rank.

  17) Any player may be given any punishment deemed suitable at any time for any reason by any staff member under his
  or her discretion.

  18) Selling, trading, or ownership transfer of spawned items is not permitted.

  19) Possession, selling, trading, or any other means of ownership transfer of overpowered ("god") weapons or items is
  strictly prohibited. An overpowered weapon or item is defined as anything with enchantments that cannot be together or
  exist in "vanilla" (no modifications) Minecraft.

  20) Orders given by staff members must be followed by lesser ranks.

B. PvP Rules (Player vs Player)

  01) PvP that is unwarranted is not allowed. Any PvP where either side of the fight has not accepted a duel is
  prohibited. PvP where both sides have agreed to a fight is permitted. Examples of warranted PvP:
    * A player is inside of private property owned by the attacker - note that if the player was teleported inside
      private property, the kill is unwarranted
  Examples of unwarranted PvP:
    * Accepting a teleport request and killing the person that was teleported
    * Running around and killing people at random
    * Killing people for being near private property
    * Killing people for fun

  02) Self-defense is allowed. If any unwarranted PvP occurs, the recipient may retaliate and kill the attacker.

  03) Items won in PvP (self-defense included) may be kept by the killer.

  04) The safest way for PvP to be approached is by setting up a match. If both players agree to the match, then both
  sides are protected by the PvP rules. This is valid PvP.

  05) If PvP is reported, the responding staff member will decide if the PvP was warranted.

C. Faction Rules

  01) Land may not be stolen from other factions unless both factions are set as enemies.

  02) Bribes, blackmail, or threats are not acceptable methods of faction recruiting. Use of such methods is strictly
  prohibited.

  03) New factions may not be created bordering another faction.

  04) Rules written down in a faction by a staff member of that faction are considered server rules for members of that
  faction. Not following such rules may result in punishments equivalent to breaking a server rule.

  05) Leaders kicked out of their faction for inactivity will not be reset to leader when they return. It is up to the
  leader to make sure that he remains active.

  06) Faction rules may not supersede server rules.

  07) Faction wars are allowed. Members of the warring factions may kill enemies freely and without restriction so long
  as the war remains.

  08) Land may not be claimed for the sole purpose of using faction-defined PvP rules. For example, spotting someone in
  the wilderness and claiming the land they are in to kill them is not allowed.

D. Chat Rules

  01) The recommended playing age for this server is eighteen (18) years of age. Content in the game (chat included)
  will not be curbed in any manner. If this is unacceptable, do not use the server.

  02) Excessive verbal abuse is not allowed. Arguments should be taken into private messages. No one likes being caught
  in a quarrel.

  03) Sexual harassment will not be tolerated. Sexually themed messages, buildings, etc. will not be accepted. Any
  sexual abuse/harassment should be reported to staff or posted on the forums immediately.

  04) Asking for ranks in chat is prohibited.

  05) Profane language is allowed, but unnecessary, repeated use of it is prohibited.

  06) English is the main language of this server. If any other language is spoken, it must be spoken via private
  message or a party. There should only be English in the main chat.

  07) Spamming is strictly prohibited. Spamming is defined as sending the same message more than three times in a row
  in rapid succession.

  08) Using colors in chat is allowed for ranks with the permission to; however, using colors at the start of a message
  for the whole message is not allowed. This can be done a few times, but not always. Using the gold color code (&6) to
  do such is also prohibited.

E. War Rules

  01) Use of spawned items, spawning items in game, flying, and use of godmode, buddhamode, or something else that
  prevents death is prohibited.

  02) In all spleef warzones, both islanding and spawn destroying are prohibited. Islanding is the removal or all
  blocks around a player, making that player unreachable. Spawn destroying is breaking all the blocks around a team's
  spawn point, making it impossible for them to win. Spawn destroying is allowed in hardcore spleef, as long as the
  obsidian remains intact.

  03) Specific warzone rules:
    a) Spleef
      i) One must stay on the level they fall to. Building to a higher level is prohibited.
      ii) If a player dies, he must proceed to the lowest level with a player on it.
    b) Hardcore Spleef
      i) Trying to kill teammates is not allowed.
    c) PvP
      i) The wool in the chests is only to be taken by the team of its respective color.
      ii) Stealing the other team's spawn monument is legal, but holding all three monuments at the same time without
      letting the other team have a chance is frowned upon.
      iii) The placing or removal of any block besides flags is prohibited.
    d) Bomb
      i) Focusing on only one player or team in the PvP aspect of the game is not allowed.
    e) Sumo
      i) The objective is to knock the other player off of the tower.
    f) CTF
      i) Camping (remaining in the same area over time) in the other team's flag or spawn is prohibited.

  04) All PvP inside of a War arena is warranted.

F. OpenPvP Rules

  01) All PvP inside of an OpenPvP zone is warranted.

RoyalCraft Rules r21
